# medical-records
In Canada, we are seeing the need to improve the healthcare system. What many people don’t realise is that our healthcare system still makes use of very primitive information systems like excel sheets, fax machines, and even paper written records. There is a ton of room for improvements that we as Computer Scientists can make. For example, Electronic Medical Records (EMRs) are becoming increasingly important in the healthcare industry, providing a way for doctors and other healthcare professionals to access a patient's medical history, diagnosis, and treatment plans all in one place. By automating the process of collecting, storing, and analyzing patient data, EMRs help to improve the quality of care, reduce errors, and increase patient safety. In this project, you will be creating a Health Information System that uses biomedical signals to produce an electronic medical record for each patient. The system will read patient data from a plain-text file that is separated by commas, allowing new patient information to be added through user input to update the plain-text file. In programming, the term "backend" refers to the part of a software system or application that is responsible for handling data processing, and other functionality that is not directly visible to the user. This includes database management, and other aspects of a system that do not involve the user interface (UI). The backend is typically responsible for processing requests and delivering data to the frontend (user-facing part of the software) for display to the user. It is often designed to be scalable, flexible, and able to handle large volumes of data efficiently. Though we will not be focusing on User-Interface design (UXD) in this assignment, your work in this assignment will provide a possible core information system “backend” to help improve a healthcare system.

The program will provide the following features, plus more as described in the function sections below:
1. A function to read patient data from a plaintext file.
2. A function to display various statistics about the patients, such as the average vital signs about the patients or for a specific patient.
3. A function to display patient data for all patients or for a specific patient by ID.
4. A function to add new patient data to the patient list.
5. A function to find patient visits in a certain month or year
6. A function to find patients who need follow-ups depending on their vital statistics
7. A text-based interface to list the patients and allow the user to select which feature they would like to use.
